- [Instructor] Before we get started writing our first test,
let's get clear again on our test objectives.
Let's glance at a visual representation
of what our test goals are.
Remember, we're doing an integration test
of our contact management service.
We will start writing our first happy path test case
where we're just testing how to add
a new contact to our address book.
Since this is an integration test,
it involves exercising the interaction
between the contact management service,
and the contact management data access components.
There's a bit of special JUnit and Spring set up to consider
before we start testing.
So let's preview some of those things
that we're going to have to do.
Since we're testing services and its dependencies,
we don't want to run any controller components.
Instead, we want to isolate
just testing our service components
and our data access components,
and how those two things interact with each other.
And because we are using real data access components,
that also means we will connect to a real data source,
which could be a test-specific data source
or other staging database environment
that you have set up and ready to go.
For this exercise, we have a Spring project
set up with the familiar Spring project layout.
We have our production source
in the source main java tree.
And our test source code in the source test java tree,
which I will expand now.
And because we only care about testing
our service components now,
there is a service package.
And in there, we have an integration test ready to go,
which I will open.
So the first thing we want to do,
some of those housekeeping things that I mentioned.
We have to instruct JUnit.
Mow we are testing a Spring application.
So we do that by adding the @RunWith annotation.
The next thing we want to do is
let JUnit know that not only are we testing
a Spring application,
but this is a Spring Boot application,
so we're going to add the @SpringBootTest annotation.
This is going to let the JUnit environments
bootstrap all of the required Spring components.
However, there is one caveat here,
one more thing we want to add.
Because we are only testing our service components,
we want to also instruct JUnit
to just load the components that we care about most,
and ignore the ones that we don't care about.
So we do that by adding the webEnvironment attribute.
And we're going to tell it exactly
what kind of web environment we want loaded during our test,
which for our purposes, it's none.
This means none of our controller components will be loaded,
which is exactly what we want.
For our simple example, there's not much gain there,
because we don't have any
or many controller components to begin wit.
But in a real world scenario,
this could become very useful
when you really want to make sure that
only what you need to load gets loaded during the test.
So the next thing I want to point out
is we have our context management service
auto wired or injected in,
because that is the component
that we actually want to test.
So at a minimum, we want to make sure that is a
field on this test class.
And now, we're going to begin our first test,
which is the AddContactHappyPath.
The first thing we want to do is create our contact.
And for our testing,
we're just going to set a few properties on this contact.
So let's give our first contact a name.
I'm going to call her Jenny.
And let's give Jenny a last name.
Let's call her Jenny Johnson.
So I'm going to stop there for our needs,
but in real test scenario,
we would want to set more attributes on Jenny,
maybe her address, her phone number, her email,
but I want get to just running this test.
So we've set up enough information about Jenny
that we want to save,
so let's call our contactsManagementService
and save Jenny's record.
So we're going to call the add method
on our contactsManagementService.
We're going to pass in the new contact
that we just created for Jenny,
and it should save.
But that's not interesting enough,
because we really want to see
what gets returned from that save.
And it will be a customer contact,
object, but it will be a new object.
So, now, this is where things get interesting.
We want to compare
what we send in, a contact,
with what we got back, the new contact that was saved.
And the way we could do that with JUnit,
and this is where the power of JUnit comes in,
is by
creating a set of assertions,
as many as you feel necessary
or useful for your test needs.
So I have a few here ready to go.
These are kind of the basic ones,
but you'll start to see a pattern here
on the things you want to assert.
The first thing I want to assert
ist that the new contact isn't null.
That's a good smoke test,
just to make sure that the object
that came back after the save actually got saved,
and nothing went wrong there.
Another good thing to assert
is that the new contact actually has an ID.
And the final assertion that I want to make for this example
is just a simple comparison.
I expect that that the record I save
was actually Jenny's record,
so I want to see for the new contact,
did I get back something where the first name is Jenny?
This assertEquals JUnit assertion is doing just that,
a simple string comparison between what I expect,
and what was actually returned.
So now,
let's run this test.
I'm going to right click
on the testAddContactHappyPath
in my Explorer window,
and then I want to run this as a JUnit test,
and see the amazing green bar when it's done.
Ah, and that's what we're looking for.
When your test and all of your assertions have held true,
this green bar will actually be green.
If something went wrong, it will be red,
and that's where you can go in and trouble shoot,
either your test code or your actual production code.
So, let's do one last thing.
We've done some assertions, we ran our test,
we've got the green bar we love to see
after running a JUnit test.
Let's go do one final check.
Let's see what's in the database.
So I've moved over into the MySQL browser.
That let's me query tables on my database,
and see what's happening in any of my tables.
So right here I have a select statement ready to go.
I just want to select the customer ID and the first name
from my customer contact table.
I'm expecting to see Jenny's record in there.
And there she is.
I ran the select query,
and I see one record, Jenny's first name,
Jenny's last name,
and her record has an ID.
That's exactly what I wanted to see.
And now, we can get back to writing more tests.
So let's review what just happened.
We provided JUnit and Spring some important
bootstrapping directives,
so that the test could run
with all of the Spring components needed,
but also ignoring the Spring components
that we don't need during the test.
We created our ContactManagementServiceInegrationTest.
And we added test coverage for the Add Contact feature.
We got a green JUnit bar.
And to be extra sure that our test was successful,
we verified in our local MySQL database
that the new contact record was indeed added.
And finally, we have now paved the way
to write more service integration test cases.